[SPARK-43205] IDENTIFIER() clause (OBSOLETE) (#40884)
apache/spark: docs/sql-ref-identifier-clause.md

---
layout: global
title: Identifier clause
displayTitle: IDENTIFIER clause
license: |
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
  contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
  this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
  The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
  (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
  the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
---

### Description

> Convert a STRING literal into an identifier or name. The IDENTIFIER clause can be used in many places instead of, or in combination with identifiers where identifiers or names are used.

Reviewer: Shall we be more clear here? I think we can say that this clause can be used anywhere that an expression can be used, and will be converted into an unresolved column. In addition, it can also be used where a table identifier is used, such as FROM tbl, CREATE TABLE tbl, and will be converted into an unresolved relation.

Author: It's a game of whack-a-mole. I did not cover all places. I did not cover all places, And I'm unsure how feasible it is to cover all (and keep them covered).

The purpose of this clause is to allow for templating of identifiers in SQL statements without opening up the risk of SQL injection attacks.

### Syntax

```sql
IDENTIFIER ( str )
```

### Parameters

* str: A STRING literal. Typically, the literal represented by a placeholder construct, such as a hive variable reference.

### Notes

While constant string expressions are not supported you can combine multiple string literals into one by chaining them: ‘hello’ ‘world’ is equivalent to ‘helloworld’.

> This allows parameterization of partial strings such as ‘prefix_’ ${ hivevar:x } ‘_postfix’.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows parameterization of partial strings such as 'prefix_' ${ hivevar:x } '_postfix'.
```

Different tools support different syntax for text substitution. For example a Notebook may use { { parameter } }.

### Examples

```sql
-- Using a Hive variable in Databricks Runtime

> SET hivevar:tab = ‘T’;

Reviewer: ditto, we should use `'`

Reviewer: It's a common problem when we copy something from Google doc or Microsoft word.

Author: ```suggestion
SET hivevar:tab = 'T';
```
